# DBA-120-Final-Project
ERD and final project for DBA-120

Original description of database for 2011 project:

	I worked on this project in several steps. First, I would select the region to work on and create a folder for that region on my computer. Then I would bring up the spreadsheet that listed the names and numbers of the subregions, and create folders for those within the region folder. Then I bring up the database listing all the countries in the world and find the ones in each subregion based on the ID numbers provided. At this point I go to the Red Cross webpage for the appropriate region, and make note of any countries in the database not listed on the webpage (it would make things much easier if these pages grouped countries by subregion as well, then I would not have to rely on the cumbersome “countries” database). After I have narrowed down the list of countries I make a folder for each one in the appropriate subregion folder. For each country I make three more folders for the three types of DREFs I work with: Operations, Final Reports, and Updates. Next I go to the webpage for appeals, and download all DREFs for the subregion I am working on, organizing them by country and type. I also create a folder for Regional DREFs, which are for multiple countries or occasionally an entire subregion. Sometimes on the Red Cross site these are placed under the heading for the subregion, and can only be found by searching under the subregion, rather than county, heading. Other times they are listed with the DREFs of each country they apply to. I should like to note that all DREFs are current as of July 1st 2011, when I started the project.
	After I have saved the DREFs to my computer, the next step is to incorporate them into the database.  Initially I simply put the names of the countries I plan to work in the first column. The next two columns list the region and the subregion of each country. Next I quickly go through the DREFs for that country, counting how many are weather related. I do not limit myself to obvious weather events, but anything that could be indirectly caused by weather, such as food insecurity, fire, or the outbreak of a disease. Countries that do not have weather related drefs are deleted from the database. Next I create a row for each of these DREFs, copying the country as many times as needed. At this point I specify the type of DREF in the fourth column. Next I go back to the folder and look at each DREF individually. First I add identifying information in the Database. The fifth column is for the DREF ID, the sixth for the date, and the seventh for the situation described in the document. 
	Now it is time for the truly important part. I search the document for the terms “predict”, “forecast”, and “early warning”. I record each instance of these terms in the eighth, ninth, and tenth columns respectively. Since it is easy to say that one is anticipating the weather without using these terms, I use the eleventh column for any other terms I think might be relevant. For instance, DREFs will often say “expect” when when they mean “predict” or “forecast”, so I search for that as well and only list it when it is relevant. I also find that it is helpful to search for “weather” and “meteor” (short for meteorology) since these are often mentioned in conjunction with a forecast. If the DREF does not contain any relevant terms, I record this and move onto the next one. If it does, not only do I record the instances of each term, but I also copy the paragraph it is used in and paste it into columns thirteen and beyond. Column twelve is where I note how the term is used. There are several terms for this. “Smart” is when a DREF is written in anticipation of a disaster. “Somewhat smart” Is when the DREF is written after the initial disaster has happened, but takes note of the forecast to anticipate if the weather could make things worse. “Retrospective learning” is when a writer notes after the disaster that forecasts were available, and recommends their use in the future. The term “incorrect forecast is used when the forecast is wrong or was misunderstood. (I should also note that the first two terms are temporary, and I do not mean to apply that DREFs, and especially the people who write them, aren’t smart). After each of these terms I put a number, one through three, indicating how clear it is that the DREFs are doing what the categories indicate. One means that I am very confident, two, pretty sure, and three, not sure at all. Lastly, DREFs sometimes use the key terms in ways that are not related to climate, I still list them and copy the paragraphs, but use the term “Non-Climate” to describe them. That describes the process I used to put together this database, and I hope that anyone who has to modify it in the future finds this document helpful.

Some Helpful Statistics
Number of countries with weather related DREFs- 110
Most common disaster- Flooding
Instances of “predict”- 72
Instances of “forecast”- 117
Instances of “early warning”- 104
Instances of other terms- 88
Number of DREFs that are “smart”- 52
Number of DREFs that are “Somewhat smart”- 122
Number of DREFs that are “retrospective learning”- 16
Number of DREFs that are “incorrect forecast”- 4
Number of DREFs that are “non-climate”- 22
